# IS 452 Final Project 

## Introduction 
Welcome! 

⋅⋅⋅ In the United States, financial institutions are required to retain both physical and digital documentation of business transactions as well as customer and account information; however, each different type of documentation has its own retention requirements. Banks are only required to retain some documents, such as customer signature cards, for three years after the document is generated while others, such as original promissory notes, have a required retention time of seven years past the closing of its corresponding account. Still, some documents that have outlived their retention schedule requirements may need to be retained if the account is under legal investigation (referred to as a “legal hold”). This process can be very overwhelming so many institutions adopt a “just in case” mentality and retain every document. This presents several problems.

⋅⋅⋅ As cyber crime and identity theft become more common, bank’s have a responsibility to manage the information of its customers with great care. Retaining unnecessary documents past the legal requirements presents a higher risk of information leak should the document repository be compromised in some way. Also, retaining too many files can muddle the bank’s information systems making access to needed files more cumbersome. Furthermore, as more files are added to the repositories (both physical and digital) the actual storage space becomes a greater physical and financial burden.

⋅⋅⋅ For this project I have created a Python program that analyzes a csv inventory of files to determine which files are eligible for destruction. This process involved multiple steps including researching the retention schedule of various files, building a reference for the program, and writing a script that will filter particular dates based on the reference. I used fictitious files generated by a separate program for the project; however, understanding this process will greatly benefit me in my profession. I manage the records for a financial institution and we are currently vetting vendors to create software that will help us manage this problem across multiple file sources. Understanding the process at a base level will help me collaborate with these vendors more effectively


# Contents
1. [Retention Schedule Guide](https://github.com/slryb9008/rybicki1_final_project_IS452/blob/master/Retention_Guide.ipynb)  

2. [Sample Doc Generator](https://github.com/slryb9008/rybicki1_final_project_IS452/blob/master/Doc_Generator.ipynb) 

3. [Rentention Schedule Checker](https://github.com/slryb9008/rybicki1_final_project_IS452/blob/master/Retention_Checker.ipynb) 
